Hello, welcome to Jam Jews beginner guitar.
My name is Ethan Michael and I will be your instructor.
In this lesson we will discuss what to expect to learn from this course,
And we’re also going to touch on the role of instruments in Jewish spiritual life.
We will practice holding and
strumming the guitar,
I’ll show you how to tune your instrument
And we’ll go over some simple practice techniques.
Subsequent lessons will involve
much less talking and more playing.
Before we get started I just want to
introduce myself
I’m Ethan Michael
and I’ve been playing the guitar
since I was 10 years old
And I’m in a number of bands
including a rock ‘n’ roll band,
A funk band, and most recently
a surf rock band.
I study music at the University of Denver
and I got a focus on jazz guitar,
and for me music has always been special
some of my earliest memories have
been watching concert DVDs or
listening to CDs in the car.
As I grew up and pursued the guitar as a craft,
my appreciation for music has only deepened,
so much so that it’s difficult
to put into words
how music has changed my life.
In addition to teaching you the guitar
in this course
I hope to deepen and strengthen
your appreciation
and love for the music as we progress
through this course together.
Before I got involved with Jam Jews
I didn’t have a deep relationship
with my Jewish roots.
I look forward to continuing my own
exploration of Jewish
communal music with all of you.
Some of the songs in this course are classics
and some are brand new.
Since the music covered in guitar
learning courses
tend to feature a lot of music
written by sis-gender men,
We felt it was important to feature
music written not just by sis-gendered men.
In this course he will learn songs
by composers such as Batya Levine,
Coleen Dieker, Josh Warshawsky,
Dr. Koach Baruch Frazier, Deborah Sacks Mintz,
Rabbi Yosef Goldman, Eliana Light,
And many more great songwriters.